metrics/README.md, before:


# Configure SPIRE Server and Agent to Emit Telemetry

To demonstrate how to configure the SPIRE Server and the SPIRE Agent to emit telemetry we create a scenario using Docker Compose. We run a SPIRE deployment with two metric collectors, Statsd and Prometheus. Metrics collected by Statsd will be display using Graphite

In this tutorial you will learn how to:
* Configure SPIRE Server and SPIRE Agent to emit telemetry
* Configure Statsd as a metrics collector
* Configure Prometheus as a metrics collector


# Prerequisites

Required files for this tutorial can be found in the `metrics` directory in https://github.com/spiffe/spire-tutorials. If you didn't already clone the repository please do so now.

Before proceeding, review the following system requirements:
- A 64-bit Linux or macOS environment
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed (Docker Compose is included in macOS Docker Desktop)


# Part 1: Run Services

The SPIRE Server and Agent can be configured to emit telemetry by using a dedicated `telemetry { ... }` section on their configurations. At the moment of writing this tutorial SPIRE supports Prometheus, Statsd, DogStatsd, M3 and In-Memory as metric collectors. In this tutorial we'll show how to configure Prometheus and Statsd but configuration examples for the other collectors can be found on the [telemetry](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/master/doc/telemetry_config.md) docs of the SPIRE project.

## Configure SPIRE to Emit Telemetry

The `telemetry` section supports the configuration of multiple collectors and for some collectors is also possible to declare multiple instances.
The following snippet belongs to the [SPIRE Server configuration](spire/server/server.conf) file. A similar configuration is also present at the [SPIRE Agent configuration](spire/agent/agent.conf) file.

```console
telemetry {
   Prometheus {
      host = "spire-server"
      port = 8088
   }

   Statsd = [
      {
         address = "graphite-statsd:8125"
      },
   ]
}
```

The first collector configured is Prometheus. Its configuration accepts two properties, the Prometheus server host which defaults to `localhost` and the Prometheus server port. These values are used by SPIRE to expose an endpoint which will be used by Prometheus to pull the metrics.

For the purpose of this tutorial we configured the host property using the hostname of the SPIRE Server (and Agent) but it is important to note that this configuration allows SPIRE Server and Agent to listen for remote network connections what assumes a risk. When applying a configuration like this in a production environment, the access to the endpoint should be tightly controlled. 

Such scenario generates a warning message on the logs to alert the operator about this risk:

```console
level=warning msg="Agent is now configured to accept remote network connections for Prometheus stats collection. Please ensure access to this port is tightly controlled." subsystem_name=telemetry
```

The second collector configured is Statsd. This is one of the collectors that supports the configuration of multiple instances. For that reason the configuration object expects a list of addresses. For this tutorial we define only one instance.
The address configured matches the Statsd instance running on the environment. We will see the details about this instance in a following section but for now it worth noting that the address is formed by the hostname of the service and the default port for StatsD.

By configuring the address, SPIRE will be pushing metrics to the Statsd collector.

##  Graphite & Statsd Configuration

We use the official Docker image for Graphite & Statsd. This image already contains all the services necessary to collect and display metrics. For this tutorial we map the port `80` that belongs to the nginx proxy that reverse proxies the Graphite dashboard and the port `8125` where Statsd listens by default.
The `graphite-statsd` service definition is:

```console
  graphite-statsd:
    image: graphiteapp/graphite-statsd:1.1.7-6
    container_name: graphite
    hostname: graphite-statsd
    restart: always
    ports:
        - "80:80"
        - "8125:8125/udp"
```

The Statsd service will be available at `graphite-statsd:8125` as configured for SPIRE Server in the previous section.

## Prometheus Configuration

Due to the pull nature of Prometheus we need to configure the HTTP endpoint where it will scrape the metrics. We've already configured SPIRE to expose the HTTP endpoint via the telemetry configuration so now we need to indicate to Prometheus that it should collect metrics from that endpoint. We achieve this by configuring the target with the hostname of the SPIRE server (or SPIRE Agent) and the correct port number (e.g. 8088 for the SPIRE Server and 8089 for the SPIRE Agent).

By default the HTTP resource path to fetch metrics from targets is `/metrics` but SPIRE does not expose metrics on that path. Instead, it does on the `/` path. These configurations are part of the [prometheus.yml](prometheus/prometheus.yml) configuration file.

```console
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'spire-server'
    metrics_path: '/'
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['spire-server:8088']

  - job_name: 'spire-agent'
    metrics_path: '/'
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['spire-agent:8089']
```

To run Prometheus we use the official Docker image and we mount the local directory `prometheus` to make the [prometheus.yml](/prometheus/prometheus.yml) configuration file available at the container.

```console
prometheus:
  image: prom/prometheus:v2.20.1
  container_name: prometheus
  hostname: prometheus
  restart: always
  volumes:
    - ./prometheus:/etc/prometheus
  ports:
    - "9090:9090"
```


## Run the Scenario

Use the `set-env.sh` script to run all the services that make up the scenario. The script starts the SPIRE Server, SPIRE Agent, Graphite-Statsd and Prometheus services.

Ensure that the current working directory is `.../spire-tutorials/metrics` and run:

```console
bash scripts/set-env.sh
```

Once the script is completed, in another terminal run the following command to review the logs from all the services:
```console
docker-compose logs -f -t
```


# Part 2: Test the Deployments

Let's see some real data. Open the browser and navigate to `http://localhost/` to see the Graphite web UI and, on a different tab, navigate to `http://localhost:9090/` to access the Prometheus web UI.

To generate some data, let's create a workload registration entry using the following script:

```console
bash scripts/create-workload-registration-entry.sh
```

And with this other script we perform requests to fetch an SVID for that new workload. These requests will serve to generate some metrics.

```console
bash scripts/fetch_svid.sh
```

Wait a couple of minutes while metrics are collected and then you can create graphs to review them.

There are different metrics exported by SPIRE that can be analyzed. A complete list of them can be found on [here](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/master/doc/telemetry.md). As an example, the following images show a graph for the different values of the remaining TTL of the SVID fetched.

The graph using Graphite

![Graphite Graph][GraphiteGraph]

[GraphiteGraph]: images/graphite_graph.png "Graphite graph"


The same metric but this time shown using Prometheus UI

![Prometheus Graph][PrometheusGraph]

[PrometheusGraph]: images/prometheus_graph.png "Prometheus Graph"


# Cleanup

When you are finished running this tutorial, you can use the following Bash script to stop all the containers:

```console
    bash scripts/clean-env.sh
```

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
PR comments from @sanderson042

Co-authored-by: sanderson042 <steve.anderson@hpe.com>
Signed-off-by: Andres Gomez Coronel <andresgomezcoronel@gmail.com>

metrics/README.md, after:


# Configure SPIRE Server and Agent to Emit Telemetry

To demonstrate how to configure the SPIRE Server and the SPIRE Agent to emit telemetry we create a scenario using Docker Compose. We run a SPIRE deployment with two metric collectors, Statsd and Prometheus. Metrics collected by Statsd will be display using Graphite

In this tutorial you will learn how to:
* Configure SPIRE Server and SPIRE Agent to emit telemetry
* Configure Statsd as a metrics collector
* Configure Prometheus as a metrics collector


# Prerequisites

Required files for this tutorial can be found in the `metrics` directory in https://github.com/spiffe/spire-tutorials. If you didn't already clone the repository please do so now.

Before proceeding, review the following system requirements:
- A 64-bit Linux or macOS environment
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed (Docker Compose is included in macOS Docker Desktop)


# Part 1: Run Services

The SPIRE Server and Agent can be configured to emit telemetry by using a dedicated `telemetry { ... }` section in their configuration files. Currently, SPIRE supports Prometheus, StatsD, DogStatsD, M3 and In-Memory as metrics collectors. In this tutorial we'll show how to configure Prometheus and StatsD but configuration examples for the other collectors can be found in the [telemetry](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/master/doc/telemetry_config.md) docs of the SPIRE project.

## Configure SPIRE to Emit Telemetry

The `telemetry` section supports the configuration of multiple collectors and for some collectors it is also possible to declare multiple instances.
The following snippet is from the [SPIRE Server configuration](spire/server/server.conf) file. The [SPIRE Agent configuration](spire/agent/agent.conf) file is configured the same way.

```console
telemetry {
   Prometheus {
      host = "spire-server"
      port = 8088
   }

   Statsd = [
      {
         address = "graphite-statsd:8125"
      },
   ]
}
```

The first collector configured is Prometheus. Its configuration accepts two properties, the Prometheus server host which defaults to `localhost` and the Prometheus server port. These values are used by SPIRE to expose an endpoint which will be used by Prometheus to pull the metrics.

For the purpose of this tutorial we configured the host property using the hostname of the SPIRE Server (and Agent) but be aware that this configuration, which allows the SPIRE Server and Agent to listen for remote network connections, creates a security risk to SPIRE due to the open port. When applying a configuration like this in a production environment, the access to the endpoint should be tightly controlled. 

This configuration generates a warning message in the logs to alert the operator about this risk:

```console
level=warning msg="Agent is now configured to accept remote network connections for Prometheus stats collection. Please ensure access to this port is tightly controlled." subsystem_name=telemetry
```

The second collector configured is StatsD, which is one of the collectors that supports the configuration of multiple instances. For that reason, the configuration object expects a list of addresses. For this tutorial we define only one instance.
The address configured matches the StatsD instance running on the environment. We will see the details about this instance in a following section but for now it's worth noting that the address is formed by the hostname of the service and the default port for StatsD.

By configuring the address, SPIRE will be pushing metrics to the Statsd collector.

##  Graphite & Statsd Configuration

We use the official Docker image for Graphite and StatsD. This image already contains all the services necessary to collect and display metrics. For this tutorial we map the port `80` that belongs to the nginx proxy that reverse proxies the Graphite dashboard and the port `8125` where StatsD listens by default.
The `graphite-statsd` service definition is:

```console
  graphite-statsd:
    image: graphiteapp/graphite-statsd:1.1.7-6
    container_name: graphite
    hostname: graphite-statsd
    restart: always
    ports:
        - "80:80"
        - "8125:8125/udp"
```

The Statsd service will be available at `graphite-statsd:8125` as configured for SPIRE Server in the previous section.

## Prometheus Configuration

Due to the pull nature of Prometheus we need to configure the HTTP endpoint where it will scrape the metrics. We've already configured SPIRE to expose the HTTP endpoint via the telemetry configuration so now we need to indicate to Prometheus that it should collect metrics from that endpoint. We achieve this by configuring the target with the hostname of the SPIRE server (or SPIRE Agent) and the correct port number (e.g. 8088 for the SPIRE Server and 8089 for the SPIRE Agent).

By default the HTTP resource path to fetch metrics from targets is `/metrics` but SPIRE does not expose metrics on that path. Instead, it does on the `/` path. These configurations are part of the [prometheus.yml](prometheus/prometheus.yml) configuration file.

```console
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'spire-server'
    metrics_path: '/'
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['spire-server:8088']

  - job_name: 'spire-agent'
    metrics_path: '/'
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['spire-agent:8089']
```

To run Prometheus we use the official Docker image and we mount the local directory `prometheus` to make the [prometheus.yml](/prometheus/prometheus.yml) configuration file available at the container.

```console
prometheus:
  image: prom/prometheus:v2.20.1
  container_name: prometheus
  hostname: prometheus
  restart: always
  volumes:
    - ./prometheus:/etc/prometheus
  ports:
    - "9090:9090"
```


## Run the Scenario

Use the `set-env.sh` script to run all the services that make up the scenario. The script starts the SPIRE Server, SPIRE Agent, Graphite-Statsd and Prometheus services.

Ensure that the current working directory is `.../spire-tutorials/metrics` and run:

```console
bash scripts/set-env.sh
```

Once the script is completed, in another terminal run the following command to review the logs from all the services:
```console
docker-compose logs -f -t
```


# Part 2: Test the Deployments

Let's see some real data. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost/` to see the Graphite web UI and, on a different tab, navigate to `http://localhost:9090/` to access the Prometheus web UI.

To generate some data, let's create a workload registration entry using the following script:

```console
bash scripts/create-workload-registration-entry.sh
```

And with this other script we perform requests to fetch an SVID for that new workload. These requests will serve to generate some metrics.

```console
bash scripts/fetch_svid.sh
```

Wait a couple of minutes while metrics are collected and then you can create graphs to review them.

There are different metrics exported by SPIRE that can be analyzed. A complete list of them can be found on [here](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/master/doc/telemetry.md). As an example, the following images show a graph of the remaining TTL of each SVID fetched.

The graph using Graphite

![Graphite Graph][GraphiteGraph]

[GraphiteGraph]: images/graphite_graph.png "Graphite graph"


The same metric but this time shown using Prometheus UI

![Prometheus Graph][PrometheusGraph]

[PrometheusGraph]: images/prometheus_graph.png "Prometheus Graph"


# Cleanup

When you are finished running this tutorial, you can use the following Bash script to stop all the containers:

```console
    bash scripts/clean-env.sh
```
